README.md, before:

EduAssign<p align="center"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Laravel-FF2D20?style=for-the-badge&logo=laravel&logoColor=white" alt="Laravel" /><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/MySQL-4479A1?style=for-the-badge&logo=mysql&logoColor=white" alt="MySQL" /><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green?style=for-the-badge" alt="License" /></p>EduAssign is a modern web-based assignment management platform designed to simplify academic workflows. It enables teachers to create and manage assignments while allowing students to submit their work and track progress through a clean, intuitive interface.The project focuses on simplicity, clarity, and efficient task management in educational environments.📋 Project InformationProject Name: EduAssignDeveloper: Ismail BenmbarekStack: Laravel (PHP), MySQL, Blade✨ Features👨‍🏫 Teacher FeaturesManagement: Create, edit, and delete assignments.Flexibility: Define multiple question types for tasks.Monitoring: Track student submissions in real-time.Dashboard: Access a dedicated teacher-centric overview.🎓 Student FeaturesDiscovery: View all available and upcoming assignments.Submission: Securely submit work online via the platform.Tracking: Monitor submission status and approaching deadlines.Dashboard: Personalized view of academic progress.🔐 General FeaturesRBAC: Role-based access control (Teacher vs. Student).Security: Secure authentication and protected routes.Responsive UI: Optimized for desktop, tablet, and mobile devices.🛠 Technology StackComponentTechnologyBackendLaravel (PHP)FrontendBlade Templates, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScriptDatabaseMySQLAuthLaravel Breeze/Built-in AuthenticationToolsComposer, NPM🚀 Installation & SetupFollow these steps to get the project running locally on Ubuntu or any Linux-based system.1. Clone the RepositoryBashgit clone https://github.com/ismail-dz-16/EduAssign.git
cd EduAssign
2. Install DependenciesBash# Install PHP dependencies
composer install

# Install Frontend dependencies
npm install
npm run build
3. Environment ConfigurationBashcp .env.example .env
php artisan key:generate
[!IMPORTANT]Update your .env file with your local database credentials:Extrait de codeDB_DATABASE=your_database_name
DB_USERNAME=your_database_user
DB_PASSWORD=your_database_password
4. Database & MigrationBashphp artisan migrate
5. Start ServerBashphp artisan serve
Access the application at: http://127.0.0.1:8000📖 How it WorksAuthentication: Users register and log in.Role Redirection: The system detects the user role and directs them to the appropriate dashboard.Assignment Creation: Teachers publish tasks with specific requirements.Submission Flow: Students view tasks, upload work, and receive status updates.Review: Teachers monitor the completion rates and individual student entries.🛡 Security & Version ControlThe .env file is ignored to protect sensitive API keys and credentials.The vendor/ and node_modules/ directories are excluded to keep the repository lightweight.Always run composer install and npm install after pulling updates.📄 LicenseThis project is open-source and available for educational and learning purposes. Feel free to modify and use it for your own needs.

Commit message:

Revise README with project details and setup instructions
Updated project overview, installation steps, and security practices.

README.md, after:

🚀 EduAssignModern Laravel-Powered Assignment Management System🌟 Project OverviewEduAssign is a streamlined academic management platform built to bridge the gap between educators and students. It digitizes the assignment lifecycle—from creation and distribution to submission and real-time tracking—within a secure, role-based environment.Built with Laravel, this system emphasizes clean architecture, secure data handling, and a high-performance user experience suitable for modern educational institutions.📂 System Architecture & Directory MapComponentPathResponsibilityLogic (Controllers)app/Http/Controllers/Directing traffic and processing business logicModels (ELOQUENT)app/Models/Database schema mapping and relationshipsViews (Blade)resources/views/Responsive UI components and dashboardsRoutesroutes/web.phpURL definitions and Middleware assignmentMigrationsdatabase/migrations/Version-controlled database schema🛠️ PrerequisitesEnsure your development environment meets these requirements:PHP: >= 8.2Composer: Dependency Manager for PHPNode.js & NPM: For frontend asset compilationMySQL: Database server🚀 Professional Installation Guide1. Repository SetupClone the project and enter the directory:Bashgit clone https://github.com/ismail-dz-16/EduAssign.git
cd EduAssign
2. Dependency ManagementInstall both the backend engine and frontend styling assets:Bash# Install PHP logic
composer install

# Install UI dependencies & compile assets
npm install
npm run build
3. Environment ConfigurationInitialize your environment variables and link the application security key:Bashcp .env.example .env
php artisan key:generate
[!IMPORTANT]Open the .env file and configure your local database connection:Extrait de codeDB_CONNECTION=mysql
DB_HOST=127.0.0.1
DB_PORT=3306
DB_DATABASE=eduassign_db
DB_USERNAME=root
DB_PASSWORD=your_secure_password
4. Database Schema DeploymentRun the migrations to build the tables (Assignments, Users, Submissions):Bashphp artisan migrate
📖 User Role BreakdownFeature👨‍🏫 Teacher Access🎓 Student AccessCreate Assignments✅❌Set Deadlines✅❌Real-time Submission Tracking✅❌View Available Tasks✅✅Upload Work/Files❌✅Track Progress Dashboard✅✅🖥️ Local DeploymentOnce configured, launch the development server:Bashphp artisan serve
The application will be live at: http://127.0.0.1:8000🛡️ Security & Best PracticesMiddleware Protection: Routes are protected by Laravel's auth middleware, ensuring only registered users access the dashboards.Mass Assignment Protection: Eloquent models use $fillable to prevent malicious data injection.Environment Security: Sensitive data (API keys, passwords) is strictly kept in .env and excluded from Git for safety.⚖️ License & PurposeThis project was developed by Ismail Benmbarek as a demonstration of professional web engineering. It is open-source and intended for educational use.💡 Pro Tip: To preview this Markdown with full formatting in VS Code, press Ctrl + Shift + V.
